<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /><title>freesmartphone.org GSM Network Interface</title><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.73.2" /></head><body><div class="reference" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="freesmartphone-gsm-network-interface"></a>freesmartphone.org GSM Network Interface</h1></div></div><hr /></div><div class="toc"><p><b>Table of Contents</b></p><dl><dt><span class="refentrytitle"><a href="#Network">org.freesmartphone.GSM.Network</a></span><span class="refpurpose"> — Network interface</span></dt></dl></div><div class="refentry" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="Network"></a><div class="titlepage"></div><div class="refnamediv"><h2>Name</h2><p>org.freesmartphone.GSM.Network — Network interface</p></div><div class="refsynopsisdiv"><h2>Methods</h2><pre class="synopsis"><a class="link" href="#Network.Register">Register</a>                 ()
<a class="link" href="#Network.Unregister">Unregister</a>               ()
<a class="link" href="#Network.GetStatus">GetStatus</a>                (out 'a{sv}'status)
<a class="link" href="#Network.GetSignalStrength">GetSignalStrength</a>        (out 'i'signal_strength)
<a class="link" href="#Network.ListProviders">ListProviders</a>            (out 'a(isss)'providers)
<a class="link" href="#Network.RegisterWithProvider">RegisterWithProvider</a>     (in  'i'operator_code)
<a class="link" href="#Network.GetCountryCode">GetCountryCode</a>           (out 's'dial_code)
<a class="link" href="#Network.GetCallForwarding">GetCallForwarding</a>        (out 'a{sv}'status)
<a class="link" href="#Network.EnableCallForwarding">EnableCallForwarding</a>     (in  's'reason,
                          in  's'class,
                          in  's'number,
                          in  'i'timeout)
<a class="link" href="#Network.DisableCallForwarding">DisableCallForwarding</a>    (in  's'reason,
                          in  's'class)
<a class="link" href="#Network.SetCallingIdentification">SetCallingIdentification</a> (in  's'visible)
<a class="link" href="#Network.GetCallingIdentification">GetCallingIdentification</a> (out 's'visible)
</pre></div><div class="refsect1" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301657"></a><h2>Signals</h2><pre class="synopsis"><a class="link" href="#Network::Status">Status</a>         ('a{sv}'status)
<a class="link" href="#Network::SignalStrength">SignalStrength</a> ('i'signal_strength)
</pre></div><div class="refsect1" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301691"></a><h2>Implemented Interfaces</h2><p>org.freesmartphone.GSM.Network implements
    org.freedesktop.DBus.Introspectable,
    org.freedesktop.DBus.Properties
    </p></div><div class="refsect1" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301708"></a><h2>Properties</h2><pre class="synopsis"></pre></div><div class="refsect1" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301725"></a><h2>Details</h2><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301077"></a><h3><a id="Network.Register"></a>Register ()</h3><a id="id301090" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">Register ()</pre><p>Register with any available service provider.</p><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301113"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +COPS=0, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.3.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301126"></a><h3><a id="Network.Unregister"></a>Unregister ()</h3><a id="id301138" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">Unregister ()</pre><p>Unregister from service provider.</p><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301162"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +COPS=2, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.3.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id301175"></a><h3><a id="Network.GetStatus"></a>GetStatus ()</h3><a id="id348009" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">GetStatus (out 'a{sv}' status)</pre><p>Get Network Status.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>status</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          Network status information. Mandatory tuples are:
          * ( "registration", string ):
          The registration status. Expected values are:
          * "unregistered" = not registered, not trying,
          * "home" = registered to home network,
          * "busy" = not registered, but currently trying,
          * "denied" = no permitted network available,
          * "unknown" = no idea,
          * "roaming" = registered to foreign network.
          * ( "mode", string ):
          The registration mode. Expected values are:
          * "automatic" = automatic selection,
          * "manual" = manual selection,
          * "manual;automatic" = manual first, then automatic,
          * "unknown" = unknown.
          Optional tuples are:
          * ( "provider", string ): The network provider (if registered or roaming).
          * ( "strength", int ): The signal strength in percentage (0-100).
          * ( "lac", string ): The location area code string (if available).
          * ( "cid", string ): The cell id string (if available).
        </p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348061"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>
        This can map to the following GSM 07.07 commands:
        * +CREG? (see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.3),
        * +COPS? (see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.4),
        * +CSQ (see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 8.5).
      </p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348075"></a><h3><a id="Network.GetSignalStrength"></a>GetSignalStrength ()</h3><a id="id348085" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">GetSignalStrength (out 'i' signal_strength)</pre><p>Query the current signal strength, if registered with a service provider.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>signal_strength</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>The signal strength in percent (0-100).</p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348128"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +CSQ, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 8.5.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348140"></a><h3><a id="Network.ListProviders"></a>ListProviders ()</h3><a id="id348150" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">ListProviders (out 'a(isss)' providers)</pre><p>List available service providers.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>providers</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          An array of four-tuples with the following structure:
          # Unique numerical operator code,
          # Status ("unknown", "available", "current", "forbidden"),
          # Long Name,
          # Short Name (optional, may be empty).
        </p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348195"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +COPS=?, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.3.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348207"></a><h3><a id="Network.RegisterWithProvider"></a>RegisterWithProvider ()</h3><a id="id348217" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">RegisterWithProvider (in  'i' operator_code)</pre><p>Register to a dedicated service provider.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>operator_code</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>The operator code.</p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348260"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +COPS=1..., see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.3.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348272"></a><h3><a id="Network.GetCountryCode"></a>GetCountryCode ()</h3><a id="id348281" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">GetCountryCode (out 's' dial_code)</pre><p>Compute the country code of the current service provider.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>dial_code</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>The country dial code (including the +).</p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348325"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>
        This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +COPS?, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 5.6.
        Get the dial code by cross-referencing ITU E.212 (Land Mobile Numbering Plan).
      </p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348338"></a><h3><a id="Network.GetCallForwarding"></a>GetCallForwarding ()</h3><a id="id348348" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">GetCallForwarding (out 'a{sv}' status)</pre><p>Get the network call forwarding status.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>status</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          A dictionary containing entries for call classes. Expected keywords are:
          * "voice",
          * "data",
          * "voice+data",
          * "fax",
          * "voice+data+fax".
          Rarely you can also expect:
          * "sms",
          * "dcs",
          * "dca",
          * "dpa",
          * "pad".
          The value is a three-tuple with the following structure:
          # boolean: Whether the feature is enabled or not,
          # string: Call forwarding number,
          # int: Number of seconds after which the call forwarding gets active.
        </p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348396"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +CCFC=(reason),2, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.10.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348408"></a><h3><a id="Network.EnableCallForwarding"></a>EnableCallForwarding ()</h3><a id="id348418" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">EnableCallForwarding (in  's' reason,
                      in  's' class,
                      in  's' number,
                      in  'i' timeout)</pre><p>Enable network call forwarding.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>reason</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          Reason for which you want to enable network call forwarding. Valid reasons are:
          * "unconditional",
          * "mobile busy",
          * "no reply",
          * "not reachable",
          * "all",
          * "all conditional".
        </p></dd><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>class</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          Call class for which you want to enable network call forwarding. See GetCallForwarding for valid classes.
        </p></dd><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>number</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          Phone number to which the network call will be forwarded.
        </p></dd><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>timeout</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          Number of seconds, after which network call forwarding launches (only for reason "no reply").
        </p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348520"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +CCFC=(...),3, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.10.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348532"></a><h3><a id="Network.DisableCallForwarding"></a>DisableCallForwarding ()</h3><a id="id348541" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">DisableCallForwarding (in  's' reason,
                       in  's' class)</pre><p>Disable network call forwarding.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>reason</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          Reason for which you want to disable network call forwarding. Valid reasons are:
          * "unconditional",
          * "mobile busy",
          * "no reply",
          * "not reachable",
          * "all",
          * "all conditional",
        </p></dd><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>class</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          Call class for which the network call gets forwarded. See GetCallForwarding for valid classes.
        </p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348605"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +CCFC=(...),4, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.10.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348617"></a><h3><a id="Network.SetCallingIdentification"></a>SetCallingIdentification ()</h3><a id="id348626" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">SetCallingIdentification (in  's' visible)</pre><p>Set whether your subscriber number is visible during a call.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>visible</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          One of the following values:
          * "on", if your subscriber number should always be visible to other parties.
          * "off", if your subscriber number should never be visible to other parties.
          * "network", if you want to use the network default.
        </p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348672"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +CLIR=(value), see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.7.</p></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348684"></a><h3><a id="Network.GetCallingIdentification"></a>GetCallingIdentification ()</h3><a id="id348694" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">GetCallingIdentification (out 's' visible)</pre><p>Get whether your subscriber number is visible during a call.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>visible</code></em>:</span></dt><dd><p>
          One of the following values:
          * "on", if your subscriber number is always visible to other parties.
          * "off", if your subscriber number is never visible to other parties.
          * "network", if visibility depends on the network settings.
      </p></dd></dl></div><div class="refsect3" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348740"></a><h4>Implementation notes:</h4><p>This maps to the GSM 07.07 command +CLIR?, see 3GPP TS 07.07 Chapter 7.7.</p></div></div></div><div class="refsect1" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348754"></a><h2>Signal Details</h2><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348765"></a><h3><a id="Network::Status"></a>The Status signal</h3><a id="id348776" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">Status ('a{sv}' status)</pre><p>
        Sent, when the network registration status changes.
      </p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>status</code></em>:</span></dt><dd>
          The registration status. See method GetStatus for expected values.
        </dd></dl></div></div><div class="refsect2" lang="en" xml:lang="en"><a id="id348825"></a><h3><a id="Network::SignalStrength"></a>The SignalStrength signal</h3><a id="id348836" class="indexterm"></a><pre class="programlisting">SignalStrength ('i' signal_strength)</pre><p>
        (OPTIONAL) Sent, when registered with a service provider and the network signal strength changes.
      </p><div class="variablelist"><dl><dt><span class="term"><em class="parameter"><code>signal_strength</code></em>:</span></dt><dd>The signal strength in percent (0-100).</dd></dl></div></div></div></div></div></body></html>
